All right in this lecture I'm going to teach you how to draw from photographs using a very simple grid
system technique that will allow you to transfer an image over onto your paper almost exactly as you
see it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing you need to do is you need to find a photograph that you want to copy.
Once you find that photograph you're going to go ahead and create a grid system on it like you see here
on this Parakey and now I created this grid system in Photoshop.
But now I'm going to show you how you can do this on your own drawing or a picture that you've printed
off.
So the first thing you're going to want to do is going to want to grab your image then you're going
to want to grab a ruler and decide how you want to divide it your image up.
So in this case I'm going to divide it up by inches.
So to go ahead and come down to the bottom of my page and it's about 11 inches.
I'm going to go ahead and put them work every one inch.
I want to go ahead and do the same thing for the top side.
Perfect.
You don't go ahead and do the science and then going to go ahead and connect all these lines to create
our grid system
correct.
Perfect.
So now we've created a grid system that's one inch by one edge.
The next thing you do is you're going to transfer each one of these squares on to your other paper.
So let's go ahead and create Gert's system on a blank piece of paper.
Now in this case we're not going to be transferring this image we're going to be transferring the Parakey
image onto our blank piece of paper.
So it's one paper is a different size.
It is seven inches by 10 inches so I'm going to go ahead and divide that up by inches.
It's important to make sure that you create your lines very lightly on your blank piece paper.
That way you can always come back in.
You bring it
aren't.
So now that you have your grid system drawn onto your blank piece of paper we can begin drawing into
each square.
So the way this works is you break down each square of your image into a single area that you need to
recreate.
So let's go ahead and start with an area.
So let's start with the odd.
So we need to locate where the eye is.
It's three down and five in.
So let's go ahead and recreate this Square right here.
So go ahead and find that on my grid system.
So three down and five.
So the eye needs to be right there.
And what I'm going to do is just read replicate exactly what I see in that square and pay attention
to where it's position and where the lines are.
This makes it very easy to break it down into very small squares and areas because that's a lot easier
to recreate than the entire image itself and try to keep everything in the correct proportion in the
correct relationship.
So let's go out and get started.
So I want to go ahead and draw it in the circle for the main part of the I want to go ahead and draw
an the shape of the eye.
And I'm paying attention to how close the edge of the eye comes to each edge of my box.
Not going to go ahead and draw the under part of the pie or the great part of the skin.
And then I can go ahead and move on to the box next to it so strong drawn out in I'll make sure that
you're drawing it lightly so you can always come back and erase.
Right now let's try moving on to a different square because you don't want to move from square to square
next to each other.
You can start on whatever square you like.
So let's go ahead and move on to the big square.
So the main part of the big this one right here.
So we're going to go out and find where that one is.
So it's two down from the I and then we come over one two three fourths or one two three four.
So we want to right there and then we can go ahead and draw that square and
perfect.
So now what you want to do is just want to go ahead and do this with each and every square.
Now this shouldn't take too long.
I'm going to go ahead and speed it up and you're trying to draw all the contrary lines.
You don't want to add in any of the highlights or shadows yet you just want to draw on those conference
lines so you have a guide to draw on.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Gripped.
So now we've created the country line drawing of our parents and in the next lecture we're going to
go ahead and begin to erase these borderline so they can no longer be seen.
And they're going to go in there and start adding in our values to make us look like a realistic drawing
then watching this lecture in.
I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.